---
layout: post
title: James Wylie Named FHFA Deputy Director
tags: [James Wylie, fair lending, fair housing, affordable housing, FHFA]
author: Oologah Lake Leader
---

James W. Wylie, an Oologah-Talala graduate, was recently named Deputy Director of a new division at a major federal agency in Washington, D.C.  

The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) on April 29 announced creation of a new Division of Public Interest Examination (DPIE), which will be responsible for 
supervisory oversight of the Agency’s regulated entities in the areas of affordable housing, community development, diversity and inclusion, consumer protection, and
fair lending. FHFA serves as regulator and conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the Enterprises) and regulator of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.  

Establishment of the new division will highlight the Agency’s focus on public interest examinations and increase synergy and col laboration between existing
public interest examination programs. Wylie will serve as the federal Deputy Director for DPIE.

He has led FHFA’s Office of Fair Lending Oversight since 2018 and has held increasing responsibilities at three separate major federal agencies involved in improving fair
housing and providing additional affordable housing since his graduation from law school in 2008.

“FHFA has a statutory obligation to ensure our regulated entities operate in the public interest,” said FHFA Director Sandra L. Thompson. “Since joining the Agency, James
has guided FHFA in maturing its fair lending supervision program, and he is well prepared to lead and strengthen these critical supervision functions.”

Prior to joining FHFA, he worked on consumer protection and fair lending regulations at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and on fair housing matters
at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Wylie has also been an instructor for the National Fair Housing Training Academy. He has a J.D. from the University of Oklahoma and a B.A. in history from the University of Tulsa
